-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to work
on updating our Deployments.
So we are going to go into 0 4 0 2, update Deployment.
And if you see here we can do the update Deployment using
either set image, or edit Deployment options.
So in step one, we'll use set image
and in step two, we are going to use the edit Deployment.
So, and then there will be multiple things to understand
and then multiple observations we need to make
when we are doing this.
So that will be in this model
we'll get a lot of knowledge on what we are doing.
So let's go up and then,
so for the update Deployment using set image, right?
So one thing we need to do is
like we need to get the container name correctly.
So first thing is if
let's see the update Deployment command.
So cube CTL, set image, and then Deployment,
and the Deployment name,
and container name is equal to container image.
So here, we need to have the container name.
So to get this container name, we can get that
container name using this command, cube CTL, get Deployment.
Deployment name, hyphen O AML,
and where we can find it is, spec dot, container name.
There we can find it.
So let's find our container name.
So if you go up, you can see that spec dot,
container start, name,
and then you can find cube engine X.
So that's our container name.
So in cube CTL set image, Deployment, Deployment name
and then container name is cube NGX is equal
to my new container image, which is nothing
but stack simplifies slash, cube NGX,
colon two dot zero dot zero.
So earlier we have used one dot zero dot zero.
So that's the reason our application is coming
as application V one.
So now if we are going to update it to
two dot zero dot zero.
So let's go ahead and then do that now.
So cube CTL, set image, and then this one.
And then we said that hyphen hyphen record true
for our versioning rollout.
Versioning to be enabled. Copy and come here and paste it.
Right? So now our Deployment got updated immediately
we can see the rollout status here.
So waiting for the Deployment and out of nine
nine of 10 updated.
And finally 10th one also updated.
So using rollout status, you can see how the rollout
is going to happen.
Now if you see the cube CTL get forwards
then ideally you see that all the pods got recreated
which means its age is only 23 seconds
just now it got created.
So with the new image, right? So now you can even
see cube CTL get deployed, right?
So to see that all are up
and running up to date and then available is 10.
So now describe the Deployment.
So by describing the Deployment
what we are going to understand
we can verify that events and understand that Kubernetes
by default do rolling update for new application releases.
So what is the rolling update
and then why we do rolling update by default?
So when the Kubernetes does the rolling update
what happens is like the downtime
of our application is going to be zero, right?
So one after the other it is going to update our parts
and there is one more strategy in this update Deployment.
There is one more strategies in addition to rolling
there will be something called recreate.
So if it recreates, which means
like it'll delete all the parts
and then recreate at that time.
So at that time you can expect the downtime
for your application.
By default it is going to be rolling update.
So we really don't need to define anything even
in our Deployment spec itself whenever we are
writing the YAML manifest.
But there will be some cases like my skill
my skill containers are these things wherein
you want to recreate the stuff.
So in those cases you can use the recreate strategy
but in general applications, whatever you use
99.99% will be using the rolling update.
So that's the reason is by default defaulted it.
Okay, so let's go here and then describe our Deployment
cube ctl, describe Deployment, and my Deployment name.
Right? So, let's see the events here once it comes, right?
So you can see it here.
So it has done a rolling update one after the other.
Okay, scaled up replica said
and then it started updating one
after the other, one after the other
and then it already completed all the things.
Okay, so one important thing we need to notice here
is the replica set.
So whenever we have done the update, it is going to
create a new replica set.
So the old replica set becomes zero
and the new replica set.
So 26 minutes back we created the first Deployment
in our previous section.
At that time this replica set is created means like
with this replica set we have the old version 1 dot 0 dot 0
and it created a new replica set
with the two dot zero dot zero off our application.
So this is one more observation which we need to know.
And one more thing is get pods, okay?
Pod template, hash label.
So this also you can compare and understand
that it's a different one.
So let's see here our pod and then template.
So pod template, hash label, you can see it here
it is pointing to our second replica set
whatever it got created.
So recently, which is two minutes back.
Okay? So that's about it
and verify your rollout history of a Deployment.
So we have that rollout history so we can switch back
to older versions using revision history available
to us in our next section.
So 0 4 0 3, we are going to do the rollbacks.
So at that time this will be helpful
but now we are going to just see the rollout history
of our my first Deployment application
right cube CTL, rollout, history, deployment,
and then deployment name.
So it says that the version is 2 dot 0 dot 0
and this is the second one.
So we have recorded it so it is true.
So now the last thing is access your application.
So already I have it in our browser, but
if you want you can go and then go to cube ctl
get avc, and then get the note pod here
three two one six nine and get notes iPhone.
Why? To get your external IP and then access it.
I already have it here.
3 2 1 6 9.
So if I refresh it, so now it is avc, it should become v2.
See now my application version is V2
and the background also got change two sky blue color.
So that's about it.
So now our successful Deployment has been happen means
like we updated our Deployment using the set image option
without any issues and all these observations we have done.
So in our next lecture we'll focus
on doing it using cube CTL added Deployment.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.